q) What is the maximum number of players on each cricket team?
a) 11 
b) 22 
c) 20
d) 12 
solution: a) 11 

q) How is a batter dismissed in cricket?
a) By catching the ball after it is hit by the bat 
b) By preventing the ball from leaving the field 
c) By running between the wickets 
d) By hitting a six with the ball 
solution: a) By catching the ball after it is hit by the bat 

q) Which organization maintains the laws of cricket?
a) International Cricket Council (ICC) 
b) Marylebone Cricket Club (MCC) 
c) Australian Cricket Board (ACB) 
d) England and Wales Cricket Board (ECB) 
solution: b) Marylebone Cricket Club (MCC)


Q) According to the passage, which of the following sports does NOT belong to the "club ball" sphere?
a) Baseball
b) Golf
c) Hockey
d) Football
Solution: d) Football

Q) What is the key difference between cricket and other "club ball" games?
a) The existence of a solid target structure
b) The use of a hand-held implement
c) The aim of hitting the ball towards an undefended target
d) The presence of two targets (the goals)
Solution: a) The existence of a solid target structure

Q) According to the passage, what is the possible origin of the word "cricket"?
a) It comes from the Old English word meaning a crutch or staff.
b) It is derived from the Middle Dutch word for hockey.
c) It is a combination of the Middle Dutch words for stick and chase.
d) It is a French word meaning a kind of club or stick.
Solution: b) It is derived from the Middle Dutch word for hockey.Q) When did the straight cricket bat evolve?
a) c. 1760
b) 1611
c) 1624
d) 1660
Solution: a) c. 1760

Q) What was the earliest known inter-parish or village cricket match played?
a) Chevening, Kent
b) Sidlesham, Sussex
c) Jasper Vinall
d) Cotgrave's dictionary
Solution: a) Chevening, Kent

Q) Why was cricket sometimes proscribed by the Puritans?
a) Because it was played on Sundays
b) Because it was considered "profane"
c) Because it involved gambling
d) All of the above
Solution: d) All of the aboveQ) Who claimed rights of leadership in sporting contests in the 18th and 19th centuries?
a) The gentry, including high-ranking nobles such as the dukes of Richmond
b) The cricketing amateurs who played in first-class cricket 
c) The professionals who played under contract and received a wage 
d) The officers and gentlemen who had a public school education and attended Cambridge or Oxford universities 
Solution: a) The gentry, including high-ranking nobles such as the dukes of Richmond

Q) What term was coined to describe amateurs who claimed more expenses than their actual expenditure?
a) Shamateurs
b) Gentlemen
c) Professionals
d) Social inferiors
Solution: a) Shamateurs

Q) Who were considered as "officers and gentlemen" in society and were expected to provide leadership in cricket?
a) The cricketing amateurs with a public school education who attended Cambridge or Oxford universities
b) The professionals who played under contract and received a wage
c) The gentry, including high-ranking nobles such as the dukes of Richmond
d) The social inferiors who played alongside the gentry
Solution: a) The cricketing amateurs with a public school education who attended Cambridge or Oxford universities
